---
title: "Burundi"
---
### BURUNDI

1,700 to 2,000 masl | 246,000 bags | mostly washed

Burundi is a small country in East Africa, just south of Rwanda. As an extremely mountainous country with a tropical climate, Burundi is well suited to growing specialty coffee. The country grows mostly bourbon or bourbon relatives, which tend to have substantial body and sweetness, while the country's elevation provides complex acidity-an all-around promising combination. The main growing region is Kayanza in the north. When bagged and labeled for sale, Burundian coffee is most likely to be named after the washing station where it was processed. There are more than 20 such stations in the city of Kayanza and about 160 across the entire country. Coffee is an important agricultural crop in Burundi - its number one export, in fact - but due to civil war and other complications, the country has struggled to shine in the specialty market. However, things are starting to turn around, thanks to organizations of producers and specialty coffee exporters. The national industry is also continuing to move toward more privatization after years of governmental control, which has had a positive effect on the quality of the country's coffee crop. Like the coffee in neighboring Rwanda, Burundi's coffee can sometimes fall victim to the potato defect, a condition thought to be caused by the antestia bug and a bacterial infection that makes the beans smell and taste like raw potatoes. (Andreas and I think these beans smell just like the freshly cut stems of romaine lettuce.) One defective bean can ruin an entire dose (although that doesn't mean the whole bag is bad - another argument for grinding only what you need), so smell the coffee grounds before using them; you'll be able to tell right away if they've been affected. The frequency of potato defect has greatly declined in recent years, however, due to the significant time and energy invested in figuring out why this defect happens and how to prevent it, so it's unlikely that you will encounter any defective beans.
