---
title: "Costa Rica"
---
### COSTA RICA

600 to 2,000 masl| 1,133,000 bags mostly washed

Costa Rican coffee is generally grown and processed with extreme care, which makes it a favorite here in the United States (about half of all Costa Rican coffee makes its way to the US specialty market). Costa Rica's arguably most famous region, Tarrazú, produces nearly a third of the country's total coffee output and uses highly advanced production techniques, which result in extremely clean coffees at scale. Most coffee in Tarrazú, which is surrounded by the peaks of the Cordillera de Talamanca mountain range, is grown at 1,000 to 1,80o meters above sea level. Other regions include West Valley (a quarter of production), Central Valley (where three different volcanoes influence the soil), Brunca, Tres Rios, and Orosí. The regions of Turrialba and Guanacaste also produce coffee, but suboptimal weather and lower elevations, respectively, make truly stellar coffees a bit harder to come by there. While all of Costa Rica's regions produce coffee with various distinct characteristics, the country's coffees as a whole are widely considered to be the gold standard for Central American coffee: full of nuanced and delicate aromatics, clean, bright, and citrusy, with increased notes of sweetness in higher-grown beans. Small and medium-sized farms that have been producing coffee for hundreds of years have established a reputation for consistent quality among buyers. In recent years, new small estates have been gaining attention, as the farmers there use their own micromills to control all aspects of production and quality. These micromills not only make Costa Rican coffee more traceable, they also make it easier to compare different Costa Rican coffees and taste geographical differences in each cup.
