---
title: "El Salvador"
---
### EL SALVADOR

500 to 1,800 masl | 595,000 bags mostly washed

Although its coffee is not generally considered to be in the same league as Costa Rica's and Guatemala's, El Salvador's volcanic mountain ranges, ideal weather conditions, and deep-rooted coffee tradition make for prime high-quality coffee production. To the northwest, the Alotepec-Metapán growing region, although tiny, produces some of the country's most prized coffees. To the west, Apaneca-Ilamatepec is the largest growing region and is also known for its esteemed beans. From there, traveling eastward, you'll find the regions of El Bálsamo-Quetzaltepec, Cacahuatique, Tecapa-Chinameca, and Chinchontepec. Most (some estimates are as high as 80 percent) of the coffee grown in El Salvador is bourbon (see page 113), which many producers feel is the distinguishing mark of El Salvadoran coffee. In fact, much of it comes from heirloom bourbon trees, which is unique, as most Central American producers have replaced their heir loom varietals with higher-yielding (and some say less yummy) varietals over the years. The coffee, which has a reputation for being very consistent and reliable among professionals, is capable of producing cups that are distinctly sweet and creamy, with flavors of toffee and cocoa. Citrus and fruit notes, like red apple, make their mark in higher-grown beans. While the best Central American coffees often wow people with their powerful, distinct acidity, El Salvadoran coffees tend to be subtler in that arena. If you don't care for acid-forward craft coffees, an El Salvador coffee might be a good option for you. Additionally, the country's producers have been experimenting with varietals and processing lately, so there just may be a surprising bag of El Salvadoran coffee out there waiting to be tasted.
